=head1 NAME

metamonger - Save, diff, and restore filesystem metadata

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<metamonger> [B<--config>|B<--debug>|B<-v>|B<--verbose>]

B<metamonger> {B<diff> | B<restore> | B<save> | B<status>} [B<-L>|B<--derefence>|B<-P>|B<--no-dereference>]
[B<-n>|B<--no-act>] [B<--untracked>=[I<no>|I<normal>|I<all>]] [I<<path>>]

B<metamonger> {B<help> | B<version>}

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<metamonger> allows you to store file metadata as returned by stat(1) in a text file.

By default, it saves only mtime on files.
Other attributes an

=head2 Storage format

The storage format is plain JSON, but reformatted so that every entry and all its data is on one line.
This allows for easy integration with git(1), svn(1), and other VCS.
It also allows for editing by hand should you so please.

=head2 Name

B<metamonger> stands for monging metadata.
"meta" as in metadata;
"monging" as in dealing with or selling something (fishmonger) and pushing for something unpleasant (warmonger).

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 8

=item B<--config>

Specify custom config file.

=item B<--debug>

Print debug messages.

=item B<--dereference|-L>

Always follow symlinks. This is the default.

=item B<--no-dereference|-P>

Never follow symlinks.

=item B<--no-act|-n>

Do not act; print results only.

=item B<--untracked>

Show untracked files: None, default, or all.

=item B<--verbose|-v>

Print verbose messages.

=back

=head1 COMMANDS

=over 8

=item B<diff> [I<path>]

Diff between stored and live metadata.

=item B<help>

Display this help.

=item B<restore> [I<path>]

Restore metadata to file system.

=item B<save> [I<path>]

Write metadata to file.

=item B<status> [I<path>]

Show status

=item B<version>

Display version information.

=back

=head1 SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS

B<metamonger> can set metadata on files.
This means it is able to add/remove write permissions.
It can also change the modification times of files, potentially making make(1) ignore them in a rebuild.
Don't act stupidly, as B<metamonger> will happily allow you to shoot yourself in the foot; same as rm(1).

=head1 BUGS

None are known at this time, but reports and/or patches are more than welcome.

=head1 AUTHOR

This POD/manpage and B<metamonger> itself were written by Richard "RichiH" Hartmann.

Errietta "erry" Kostala made significant contributions and implemented the test suite from scratch.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2012-2013 Richard Hartmann <S<richih@debian.org>>.

Licensed under the GNU GPL version 2 or higher.

https://github.com/RichiH/metamonger

=head1 SEE ALSO

stat(1), stat(2)
